## Reading 1: Don't forget people in the use of big data for development
Sydney Taylor 

January 28, 2020 

# Blumenstock Response
In order to discuss human development, it is important for companies to understand their collected data and the impact of their information. Companies such as Facebook, Google and Waze use "big data" in order to further understand their consumers. According to Blumenstock, "big data" refers to information collected from cellphones and satellites regarding the user's search history and geographical location.  Other non-profit organizations such as  GiveDirectly, use big data to give money to impoverished communities in developing countries. Digital maps created by social media platforms and smartphone companies provide information about the world, furthering scientific understanding of poor communities internationally. Although big data is beneficial to human development, often this information is greatly misused. Throughout Joshua Blumenstock's article, he explains that data science that has been collected from mass techonology has the power to aid those in need, but also can harm a company's understanding of true international development. 

While big data has the intention to better the human race, often this information causes more harm than good. For example, GiveDirectly is a non-profit organization that provides poor communities in developing countries with bank loans. However, there were discrepancies when providing money to the right people in need. In order to share money accurately, GiveDirectly used satellite maps and would deliver resources to families with thatched roofs on their homes. The company had a positive intention, to give economic opportunity in those in need but the outcome backfired. Some families who were not in need of the loan would olace thatched roofs on thier houses in order to obtain money from GiveDirectly as well. Making sure that companies focus on these discrepancies will help improve global economic security. 

Throughout the article, Blumenstock also explains that technology has the power to inform vital information about the public. But, the process of obtaining this information must be transparent. In the past, companies have failed to be transparent about obtaining personal information from their customers, especially social media sites. As the use of technology and social media continues to increase, many consumers have questioned their privacy rights. Companies, such as Facebook and Instagram, have gathered information in order to provide the best advertisements according to the user's likes and dislikes. While this data may be important, the collection of this data is a violation of privacy. It is important that companies who collect this data are completely transparent, so that there is mutual trust among consumers and major organizations. 

It is also important to recognize that there must be a balancing act when creating big data. One of the major discrepancies of big data is its inability to be applicable to all people. Blumenstock uses Waze as an example. Waze collects information from its users to learn more about urban planning. But this information can only be applied to those who have a smartphone, which excludes many people in poor communities. Some big data collection also stem from biased algorithm created by nunmerous organizations. Modern technology requires its users to be literate and have access to electric power, which excludes many people in developing countries. In order to better scientific data, companies and organizations must balance the information to be equally applicable. All people, especially those who are at a disadvantage should be represented in data collections and surveys. This will ensure a more accurate and valid information to better human development worldwide. 
  
