 ## CITY OF GOD IN-CLASS ESSAY 
 by Sydney Taylor 

### Essay Prompt: How  did  the  transformation  of  the  City  of  God  provide  evidence  for  how  social networks were central to Rio de Janeiro’s urbanization during the 60s, 70s & 80s?

  In the film, City of God, human development in Rio is depicted as both complex and extremely unique. The central culture is mixed with gang violence, murder, poverty and corruption throughout the city. The movie shows the cycle of violence though human development, which is prevalent within Rio. In the beginning of the film, the audience is introduced to Li’l Dice, a young man who is desperate to join a gang known as the Tender Trio. As a boy, Li’l Dice’s manhood was constantly questioned and he wanted to prove himself as a fourth member of the trio. When told to be the lookout at a hotel robbery, Li’l Dice murdered all the people inside of the building. With a smile on his face and satisfaction in his eyes, this massacre began his life of violence. As time progressed, he killed hundreds of people. He eventually gaining control of the city as the ruler of the City of God. 
  
  The development of human beings within a developing city is perfectly portrayed throughout this movie. The desire of young men to  join a gang and contribute to the violence is at the center of the culture within Rio. Young children want to prove themselves as strong men and follow the footsteps of their elders. This representing the strength of social networks within Rio. As young kids grow up surrounded by murder, their sensitivity decreases and the desire to join increases. After Li’l Dice is arrested, he is confronted by the “Runts” a gang consisting of young boys. Li’l Dice, the most dangerous and influential man in Rio, calls the Runts over to develop a new plan to make money and regain his role as ruler. But the Runts laugh in his face and the group of children take their guns, that were ironically given to them by Li’ Dice, and brutally murdered him. The strength of these social networks explain the involvement of young kids within gang violence in Rio. The central upbringing of young kids is influenced by murder and violence. As kids develop in the City of God, many are forced into a life of gang violence. 

  When thinking about the impact of scale, one can relate the prevalence of gang violence in Rio to the Dunbar’s discovery theory regarding group hierarchy. This theory explains that one person can only have “maximum of 150 close relationships at once.” But what does this tell us about the systemic violence within the city of Rio? Gangs are families. They are social networks that follow the characteristics of a family. Among gang members, there is a common goal or purpose. They are willing to die for one another and risk their lives for the gang. These close relationships also protected its members. If people were unable to defend themselves from Li’l Dice, why not join them? People gained respect from being violent. Children were applauded when they murdered one another, wanting to avenge their fathers’ deaths. is implemented in the social fabric of the City of God. 

  The urbanization of Rio de Janerio can be described by Tobler’s First Law of Geography. This law states that “everything is related to everything else, but near things are more related than distant things.” The interconnectedness of each character is shown throughout this film. The strength of gang violence in Rio has too extreme to escape. All people were involved no matter what. Each character either knew someone involved or participated themselves. As people became more entangled with social fabric of violence tensions rose significantly. As involvement rose within the city, violence greatly increased, and tensions arisen. At the end of the film, hundreds were killed and dead bodies lied all over the streets of Rio. The lack of law enforcement and government intervention explains the poor legal systems within the City of God. The police overlooked murders in the city, prolonging violence as a long and never-ending cycle. 

  It is important to question whether a person can truly escape from these dangers. Is violence so prevalent that has to be involved, or are people able to escape? Rocket, the movie’s narrator, is the one of the only characters to choose a different life for himself. He was able to change his own fate with his desire to be a photographer over a gang member. But as one character out of many, does this show that people can truly escape the “beasts” within the City of God? The prolonged cycle of violence, systemic corruption within law enforcement shows the lack of complex social systems throughout Rio. Without these societal elements, it is not easy for people to rise above gang violence. People have the desire for money, power and recognition. They want to be respected and viewed as strong men with no fears or weaknesses. Furthermore, the complexities of human development are explained by the social networks within the city of Rio. As people continue to join gangs and violence becomes an integral aspect of humanity, the region will continue to struggle in its overall development. 
