# Podcast: What is human development? 
Sydney Taylor 

February 4, 2020

## Jahan Response 

In Jahan's podcast, he discusses the importance of data science and its impact on the human race. He begins his podcast by defining human development as the intertwining of economic, social and political processes that further human life. In order for the human race to reach its full potential, the capabilities of the individual must be enhanced and opportunities have to be more accessible for all. Jahan's approach to human development takes data science even further, as more than just big data. Data science has the power to develop human beings and bring the world together as a whole. Throughout his podcast, he instructs his audience to focus on the flow of income itself.  He also describes human development as a holistic process. In order to better the human race, it is essential that people work together. It is more than just research development but about active participants who are dedicated to developing others. 

In the podcast, Jahan also discusses the importance of the Human Development Index. This index contains information about every country in the world. It collects big data on the birth measures, mortality rates and the standards of living. Jahan explaisn the index as the "crown jewel" of human development and a key element to fully understanding the world. This information captures the essence of how close the world really is. There are many misconceptions about the world, by dividing countries by their development. But in the end, many countries have similar traits that can help scientists further understand social issues like poverty or gender issues. 

In Rosling's Ted Talk, "The best stats you have ever seen," he discusses the misunderstandings of world development. In the beginning of his video, he explained that even the brightest scientists have biases. In a personally conducted survey, Rosling found that preconceived ideas of the world has affected their understanding of developing countries. This includes mortality rates and social change. He also used numerous graphs and visuals to explain the relationship between a country's health and economic wealth. The ability for a country to provide for its citizens, allows it to improve economically. He also mentions the dangers of generalizing developing countries. Describing a single country as poor, middle class or rich does not perfectly represent the country. There are often variations that are important to understand when creating and analyzing big data. Eventually, this will further human development for the better. 
